Welcome back let's use dynamic programming and memorization to improve this function.
Just like we did when we learned about memorization this is fairly simple let's remove this for now.
I'll keep this at the top and then here create a new function we'll call it Fibonacci master this function
will have a cache hash table or an object to store our pre-calculated answers.
And if you remember because we want to make sure that we don't reset this every time we run this function
we're gonna return a nother function inside here again using closures and Javascript and in other languages
you might have to use different techniques.
And in here we can just have a function we can name in whatever let's call it fib that takes.
And that is the number we give it.
And inside here will we do something very similar to the above except we're going to check the for us.
We're going to say if an is in cache
just like we did in the memo zation videos and we're going to check if the cache exists and if it does
we're going to return cash.
And the first time around this is going to be empty so it's not going to work it's going to go into
the else condition.
And then here we have two conditions just like we do up here.
And is less than two them we need to return.
And just like we did above over here otherwise we would run our sequence.
So we do fib of and minus one plus fib of and minus 2.
But we want to store this value in our cash.
So we're going to say cash and is going to equal the result of this.
And finally we want to return this value because we are using recursion here and return cash of and
which we've just set and that's it.
That wasn't that hard right.
I mean we have a few extra steps but all we did was just add the result to our hash table so that now
if I do Konst let's say faster fib is going to equal to Fibonacci.
M. remember the first time around when we're going to run this function and create the cash variable.
That again and create the cash variable and it's going to just return this function.
So it's similar to just saying like that faster fib equals this function now.
Except that now we have access to the cash variable so that now I can console all log and let's call
this DP for dynamic programming and we'll say faster fib and give it let's say 10 if I run this I get
55 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 55.
That's pretty good.
But let's do something fun here to see if it works this calculations tally that we used in Fibonacci
number let's move it to the Fibonacci M. or instead of here down in this function because this is the
one that we recursing over and let's see how many times this calculation happens if I run this and we
need to cancel log these calculations.
So at the bottom over here let's have a console log
and we'll say we did
calculations just like that.
So that if I run this we see that we did 19 calculations with the Fibonacci M. When we entered 10 versus
if we moved back calculations up to here to our old version.
And we actually have to run this function.
So and here let's just have console locks so begin how everything clean we'll say canceled or log.
This is will be this will be called slow and it will be called was it Fibonacci.
So we'll just do our original function Fibonacci with 10.
So let's see.
And Ron we got the same answers 55 but it took us a hundred and seventy seven calculations to get to
10.
Holy moly.
So 19 versus a hundred and seventy seven calculations.
And if we do 20 here
well we have that many calculations and actually just do 35.
See if that's possible we'll see 35.
There you go.
Look how many calculations we had to do versus if I do 35 with our minimalized function move the calculations
in here.
And we ran this sixty nine.
Calculations.
It instead of before where if I entered Fibonacci 50 here it would actually crash a browser because
we would do so many calculations with this one.
I can do even Achi a hundred and I have no problem.
Look how fast they calculated that.
That's pretty amazing.
It only did 199 calculation.
I hope you see the power of dynamic programming and it's not that hard.
Right.
All you need is to remember this pattern.
And if there's any repeated calculation to just memorize the result of a function so that if the parameter
is the same we check in the cache first for the result.
But let's talk about space and time complexity here this well because we're only doing the necessary
calculation.
In this case all our calculations will are and right we do one two three four five six seven calculations
versus all the ones that we did before.
So that our time complexity for this one is full of and and versus.
With this one that was of two to the power of 10 just like that we made a huge huge savings.
The one drawback is that well we increased the space complexity.
Right.
I mean with the first Fibonacci number we had to add functions to the stack and these functions.
The deeper it is we added to the stack.
But once we got to the bottom we popped off the stack so that the stack was as deep as the tree.
But with the memorized version we also had this new variable this cache hash table that we have to store
our memory.
And but as we know we sometimes need to trade up space complexity for better time complexity.
And this is what we're doing in this case.
And in this case that the time complexity savings are very very large.
All right I hope I got you excited about dynamic programming.
It's very interesting and not as overwhelming as you think.
Right.
I'll leave a couple of problems for you to do to get used to dynamic programming but I recommend that
you take the code the leaf here for you and you can just grab it from resources and play around with
it.
Otherwise I'll see in the next video by.